Synthetics getting started guide (#6147)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/synthetics/_index.md

## Overview

Datadog Synthetics offers two different ways to monitor your applications: API tests to monitor the uptime of your API endpoints and browser tests to check key user journeys. Your tests can be run either from managed locations or from private locations. Synthetics helps you ensure uptime, identify regional issues, and make sure key web transactions can be performed on your application.

{{< img src="synthetics/synthetics_home_page.png" alt="Synthetics home page" responsive="true">}}

By unifying Synthetics with your metrics, traces, and logs, Datadog allows you to observe how all your systems are performing, as experienced by your users. The [Synthetics][1] homepage details all of this information to give you real-time status updates, response times, and uptimes.

> This guide shows you how to set up your first Synthetics test with Datadog. Follow the sections below to configure an API test, browser test, or private location for internal-facing apps or private URLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows you how to set up your first Synthetics tests with Datadog. Follow the sections below to configure an API test, browser test, or private location for internal-facing apps or private URLs.
```

## Prerequisites

If you haven't already, create a [Datadog account][2].

## Configure your first tests

### Create a browser test

[Browser tests][3] are scenarios executed by Datadog on your web applications. They run at configurable periodic intervals from multiple locations around the world, and from multiple devices. These checks verify both that your applications are up and responding to requests, and that any conditions defined in your scenarios are met.

In this example, a browser test is configured to map a user's journey from adding an item to cart to successful checkout. If any step during the browser test fails, it throws an error that is recorded in Datadog as a **Test Result**.

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/browser-test.png" alt="Browser test" responsive="true" style="width:90%;" >}}

#### Configure your test

1. In the Datadog application, hover over **UX Monitoring** in the left hand menu and select **Synthetics Test**. 
2. In the top right corner, click the **New Test** button. 
3. Select **Browser Test**.
4. Define the configuration of your browser test:

>     - Add a URL. In this example the URL is https://www.shopist.io/.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Add the URL of the website you’re interested in monitoring. If you don’t know what to start with, you can use https://www.shopist.io/ which is one of our test web applications.”
```

    - Name the test.

>     - Set tags to help organize tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - You can set tags such as `prod` and `shopist` to your test. It will help to keep things organized and allow you to quickly find the tests you're interested in when on the homepage.
```

    - Choose devices and locations for testing. In this example, the test is only run on **Large Laptop** & on **English speaking countries**.
    - Specify a test frequency.
    - Set alert conditions to determine the circumstances under which you want a test to send a notification alert. To avoid being alerted on network blips that might happen on specific locations, this test is configured as:
        `An alert is triggered if your test fails for 0 minutes from any 3 of 13 locations`

>         `Retry 1 time before location is marked as failed`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Set alert conditions to determine the circumstances under which you want a test to send a notification alert. 
      - If you want to avoid being alerted on network blips that might happen on isolated locations, you can for instance set:
        `An alert is triggered if your test fails for 0 minutes from any 3 of 13 locations`
      - If you want to be sure that a test execution is only considered a failure after 2 failed test runs, specify how many times you want your test to be re-run before being actually considered a failure:
        `Retry 1 time before location is marked as failed`
```

>     - Write an alert message and specify who to notify when the alert is triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Write an alert message and specify which email addresses should be notified when the alert is triggered. No additional set up is required to start receiving alert emails from Datadog. You can also use [integrations][10], such as Slack, Pagerduty, webhooks, etc., to receive alert notifications.
```

    - Click **Save & Edit Recording**.

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/configured-browser-test.gif" alt="Configured browser test" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

#### Record your test steps

Once the test configuration is saved, Datadog will prompt you to download the [Datadog test recorder][4] extension. Browser tests can be only recorded on **[Google Chrome][5]**. Download and install the extension.

> Once this extension is installed, begin recording your test steps by clicking the **Start Recording** button. Navigate your page in the iframe to the right of the recording options. When you select a div, image, or any area of your page, the actions are recorded and used to create steps within the browser test. You can record the uploading of files as an action, though this is limited to 10 files, with a limit of 5MB each. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once this extension is installed, begin recording your test steps by clicking the **Start Recording** button. Navigate your page in the iframe to the right of the recording options. When you select a div, image, or any area of your page, the actions are recorded and used to create steps within the browser test. You can find a list of all the actions that can be recorded on https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/browser_tests/#actions
```

I would remove the reference to upload files as I feel like it's a bit out of the blue here, but created a PR https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/6246 to add upload files as a step on https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/browser_tests/#actions. So I guess we can then just reference the comprehensive doc instead here?

Author: Adding to commit.

For example, to record test steps that map a user's journey from adding an item to cart to successful checkout:

1. Navigate to one of the furniture sections, for instance **Chairs**, and select **Add to cart**.
2. Click on **Cart**, click **Checkout**.
3. Add the **assertion** “Test text is present on the active page” to confirm the words “Thank you” are on the page. 
    **Note**: Your last browser test step must be an **assertion**. This will ensure your test ended up on the expected page and found the expected element. 
4. Save the test.

> {{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/record-test.gif" alt="Record test steps" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

Reviewer: Can we use that gif https://cl.ly/0116a5aedd01 instead? `Laptop large` should be selected in the dropdown (otherwise it might cause users' tests to fail), and let's not show any account data

Author: Added gif suggestion.

> **Note**: the website used in this example regularly throws an error causing it to intentionally fail. A notification email will be triggered when the test failure occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: the website used in this example regularly throws an error causing it to intentionally fail. If you set your email address in the message box, you should consequently receive a notification email when the test failure occurs.
```

#### Test results

A **browser test** homepage will automatically populate after save. This page includes property information, historical graphs for response time and uptime, sample results, and all events and test results. Sample results include errors, resources, and traces.

> In this example, the browser test homepage shows that a recent test failed and an alert was received via email. Click on the failed test under **Test Results** or in the email. The failed test step is highlighted with a red `x`. Click the failed test to begin troubleshooting. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait for your test to generate several test results or hit `Run test now` to trigger them more quickly. Then look for a failed test result under **Test Results** or in your mailbox. The failed test step is highlighted with a red `x`. Click the failed test to begin troubleshooting. 
```

Datadog also has an [APM integration with Synthetics][6] which allows you to go from a test run that failed to the root cause of the issue by looking at the trace generated by that test run. To link browser test results with APM, whitelist the URLs you want the APM integration headers added to. Use * for wildcards: `https://*.datadoghq.com/*`

Alerts triggered with the APM integration populate under **Test Results**.

## Create an API test

[API tests][7] help you monitor your API endpoints and alert you when they are failing or too slow. These checks verify that your applications are responding to requests and meet any conditions you define, such as response time, HTTP status code, and header or body contents. Use the [Datadog API][8] to see the full list.

In this example, an API test is created to ensure your website is constantly up and providing responses in a specific amount of time.

### Configure the request

1. In the Datadog application, hover over **UX Monitoring** in the left hand menu and select **Synthetics Test**. 
2. In the top right corner, click the **New Test** button. 
3. Select **API test**.
4. Define the configuration of your API test:

>     - Add a start URL.

Reviewer: Same here, let's word it in a way that push users to create their tests:

```suggestion
    - Add the URL of the endpoint you want to monitor. If you don’t know what to start with, you can use https://www.shopist.io/ which is one of our test web applications.”
```

    - Select **Advance Options** to use custom request headers, authentication credentials, body content, or cookies.
    - Add one or two tags, like `prod`, to help organize and filter tests.
    - Select locations for testing.
    - Click the **Test URL** button.

#### Define your alert conditions

Now that the test is completed, if you did not create any [assertions][9], they are automatically populated. API tests require at least one assertion to be monitored by Datadog. An assertion is defined by a parameter, an optional property, a comparator, and a target value.

In this example, three default assertions are populated when testing the URL:
```
When status code is 200
And header content-type is text/html; charset=utf
And response time less than 2000 ms

> ```

Reviewer: Can we put a screenshot like https://cl.ly/cb264b701f9c instead?

Author: Added screenshot.

These assertions define the alert condition and can be customized. To add a custom assertion, click on any response header in the response preview. You can also click the **New Assertion** button to add an assertion manually, (e.g., `body` contains `Shop.ist`.)

To configure the manual retry of a test when it fails, set:
```
An alert is triggered if your test fails for x minutes from any x of x locations`
Retry x time before location is marked as failed
```

Once alert conditions are set, create a message for the alert and specify what services and team members to receive the alert notification email and click **Save Test**. You can also use [integrations][10], such as Slack, Pagerduty, webhooks, etc., to receive alert notifications.

> {{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-configuration.gif" alt="Browser test failure" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

Reviewer: Can we move that right after the 
```
These assertions define the alert condition and can be customized. To add a custom assertion, click on any response header in the response preview. You can also click the **New Assertion** button to add an assertion manually, (e.g., `body` contains `Shop.ist`.)
```
paragraph?

Author: Moved to after this paragraph.

### Test results

> An **API test** homepage will automatically populate after save. This page includes property information, historical graphs for response time and uptime, sample results, and all events and test results. Sample results include errors, resources, and traces. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An **API test** homepage will automatically populate after save. This page includes property information, historical graphs for response time and uptime, sample results, and all events and test results.
```

To troubleshoot a failed test, scroll to the Test Results section and click on the **Test Results** tab. Click on the failed test, labeled as `Alert`, to view detailed test results. Review the failed assertions and response details such as returned status code, response time, and associated headers and body to resolve the issue.

> {{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-failure.png" alt="API test failure" responsive="true" style="width:90%;">}}

Reviewer: Let's use a screenshot with the same endpoint https://cl.ly/3780b2df1064

Author: Used your screenshot example.

> Datadog also has an [APM integration with Synthetics][6] which allows you to go from a test run that failed to the root cause of the issue by looking at the trace generated by that test run. To link browser test results with APM, whitelist the URLs you want the APM integration headers added to. Use * for wildcards: `https://*.datadoghq.com/*`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog also has an [APM integration with Synthetics][6] which allows you to go from a test run that failed to the root cause of the issue by looking at the trace generated by that test run.
```

Alerts triggered with the APM integration populate under **Test Results**. Click the result link given to review test details and traces.

## Set up your first private location

Private locations allow you to monitor internal-facing applications or any private URLs that aren’t accessible from the public internet. They can also be used to create a new custom Synthetics location.

The private location worker is shipped as a Docker container, so it can run on a Linux based OS or Windows OS if the Docker engine is available on your host and can run in Linux containers mode.

By default, every second, your private location worker pulls your test configurations from Datadog’s servers using HTTPS, executes the test depending on the frequency defined in the configuration of the test, and returns the test results to Datadog’s servers.

Once you created a private location, configuring a [Synthetics API test][#configure-the-request] from a private location is completely identical to the one of Datadog managed locations.

To configure a private location:

> 

Reviewer: I understood that we did not want to list all of the commands, but can we still recommend the user to:
1. Set up a Vagrant Ubuntu 16.04 virtual machine: https://app.vagrantup.com/ubuntu/boxes/xenial64
2. Install Docker on that machine: https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/#install-docker-ce
?

Author: Actually, this is a good catch. I forgot to add this section in last minute because I was debating between putting it in the section above (since it mentions docker) or here. Will add.

    `docker run --init --rm -v $PWD/worker-config-<LOCATION_ID>.json:/etc/datadog/synthetics-check-runner.json datadog/synthetics-private-location-worker`

4. If your private location reports correctly to Datadog, you will see the corresponding health status displayed if the private location polled your endpoint less than 5 seconds before loading the settings or create test pages:

  * In your private locations list, in the Settings section:

    {{< img src="synthetics/private_locations/private_location_pill.png" alt="private locations pills" responsive="true" style="width:100%;">}}

  * In the form when creating a test, below the private locations section:

    {{< img src="synthetics/private_locations/private_locations_in_list.png" alt="Private locations in list" responsive="true" style="width:75%;">}}

    You will also see private location logs populating similar to this example:
    ```
    2019-12-17 13:05:03 [info]: 	Fetching 10 messages from queue - 10 slots available 
    2019-12-17 13:05:03 [info]: 	Fetching 10 messages from queue - 10 slots available 
    2019-12-17 13:05:04 [info]: 	Fetching 10 messages from queue - 10 slots available
    ```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. You are now able to use your new private location as any other Datadog managed locations for your [Synthetics API tests][7]. This is specifically useful to monitor any internal endpoints you might have.
```

> 6. You are now able to use your new private location as any other Datadog managed locations for your [Synthetics API tests][7]. Create an API test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. You are now able to use your new private location as any other Datadog managed locations for your [Synthetics API tests][7]. Create an API test on any endpoint you're interested in monitoring. If you don't know where to start you can use `https://www.shopist.io/`, which is one of our test web applications.
```

> 6. You are now able to use your new private location as any other Datadog managed locations for your [Synthetics API tests][7]. Create an API test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Create an API test on any endpoint (including internal) you're interested in monitoring. If you don't know where to start you can use `https://www.shopist.io/`, which is one of our test web applications.
```

> ## Overview

Reviewer: Overall: thanks a lot for the great work here, my only concern is that a lot of the content is similar to the already existing doc, and I want to make sure there's added value on this Getting started. Please let me know if my comment does not make sense from a doc POV, but I'm wondering if we could add more specific examples, for instance using a webhook in the message, setting up fast retries to 2, etc.

Author: Thanks for the feedback! Incorporated suggestions into the most recent commit. I'm working on adding details about webhook + fast retries. Will let you know when finalized.

> Datadog Synthetics monitors your applications and API endpoints via simulated user requests and browser rendering. Synthetics helps you ensure uptime, identify regional issues, and track application performance. By unifying Synthetics with your metrics, traces, and logs, Datadog allows you to observe how all your systems are performing, as experienced by your users.

Reviewer: - Datadog Synthetics monitor
- Synthetics helps you ensure uptime, identify regional issues, and make sure key business transactions can be performed on your application.

In my opinion, performance monitoring is more an APM & RUM thing

{{< img src="synthetics/synthetics_home_page.png" alt="Synthetics home page" responsive="true">}}

This guide shows you how to set up your first Synthetics test with Datadog. Follow the sections below to configure your API, browser test, or private location for internal-facing apps or private URLs.

## Prerequisites

The browser tests can be only recorded from **[Google Chrome][1]**. Datadog will prompt you to download this extension during the creation of the test. You can also download the [Datadog Record Test extension for Google Chrome][2].

## Create a Datadog account

If you haven't already, create a [Datadog account][3].

## Configure your first test

> Synthetics offers three different ways to monitor your applications and API endpoints: API test, browser test, and private locations.

Reviewer: Synthetics offers two different ways to monitor your applications: API tests to monitor the uptime of your API endpoints, and browser tests to check key user journeys. Your tests can be run either from managed locations or from private locations.

### Create an API test

> [API tests][4] help you monitor your API endpoints and alert you when they are failing or too slow. These checks verify that your applications are responding to requests and meet any conditions you define, such as response time, HTTP status code, and header or body contents. Use the [Datadog API][5] to see the full list.

Reviewer: 5 should link to https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/?lang=bash#create-a-test

To configure an API test:

1. In the Datadog application, hover over **UX Monitoring** in the left hand menu and select **Synthetics Test**. 
2. In the top right corner, click the **New Test** button. 
3. Select **API test**.
4. Define the configuration of your API test.

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab "HTTP Test" %}}

{{< img src="synthetics/api_tests/make-http-request.png" alt="Make HTTP Request" responsive="true" style="width:80%;" >}}

Define the request you want to be executed by Datadog:

1. **Choose request type**: `HTTP`
2. Choose the **Method** and **URL** to query. Available methods are: `GET`, `POST`, `PATCH`, `PUT`, `HEAD`, `DELETE`, and `OPTIONS`.
3. **Name**: Set the name of your API test.
4. **Select your tags**: Select the tags attached to your API test. Use the `<KEY>:<VALUE>` format to filter on a `<VALUE>` for a given `<KEY>` on the [Synthetics page][1].

> 5. **Locations**: Select which Datadog managed locations to run the test from. Many AWS locations from around the world are available. The full list is retrievable through the [Datadog API][2]. You can also set up a [Private Location][3] to run a Synthetics API test on a private endpoint not accessible from the public internet.

Reviewer: > You can also set up a [Private Location][3] to run a Synthetics API test on a private endpoint not accessible from the public internet.

Are we redirecting to https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/private_locations/#overview on purpose? Wouldn't it make more sense to redirect to the getting started private location section? Just asking really

7. Click on **Test URL** to try out the request configuration. You should see a response preview show up on the right side of your screen.

[1]: /synthetics
[2]: /api/?lang=bash#get-available-locations
[3]: /synthetics/private_locations
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "SSL Test" %}}

{{< img src="synthetics/api_tests/make-ssl-request.png" alt="Make SSL Request" responsive="true" style="width:80%;" >}}

1. **Choose request type**: `SSL`
2. Specify the `Host` and the SSL `Port`. By default, the port is set to _443_.
3. **Name**: The name of your API test.
4. **Select your tags**: Select the tags attached to your API test. Use the `<KEY>:<VALUE>` format to filter on a `<VALUE>` for a given `<KEY>` on the [Synthetics page][1].
5. **Locations**: Select which Datadog managed locations to run the test from. Many AWS locations from around the world are available. The full list is retrievable through the [Datadog API][2]. You can also set up a [Private Location][3] to run a Synthetics API test on a private endpoint not accessible from the public internet.

> 6. **How often should Datadog run the test?** Set the interval for how often the test will run. Intervals are available between every five minutes to once per week.

Reviewer: Between every one minute

7. Click on **Test Connection** to try out the request configuration. You should see a response preview show up on the right side of your screen.
[1]: /synthetics
[2]: /api/?lang=bash#get-available-locations
[3]: /synthetics/private_locations

> {{% /tab %}}

Reviewer: The alert conditions section is pretty different depending on whether it's an HTTP test or a SSL, so maybe the whole `Set alert conditions and assertions` should be included in tabs as well?
SSL tests: 
- two default assertions are created: certificate is valid & certificate expires in more than x days. 
- custom assertions can be created on certificate expires in more than x days & on property
- no alert conditions for SSL tests

{{< /tabs >}}

> #### Set alert conditions and assertions

Reviewer: Would put it the other way around: Set assertions & alert conditions (since assertions are mandatory VS alert conditions are optional)

Once the URL is tested, a response preview will populate in a panel to the right of the configuration options. If the test fails, review the error [here][6].

> 

Reviewer: I feel like after this section's first sentence, we should clarify the difference between assertions & alert conditions. I'm thinking of sthg like this:

First: assertions

> This panel shows the request as well as the response preview of your API call. It also automates the creation of assertions on the status code, `content-type` header, and response time of the request.

> You can create custom assertions: in the **Headers** section of this panel's response preview, click on any header to auto-populate a `header` assertion. It is also possible to manually add [assertions][8], on `body`, `header`, `response type`, or `status code` by clicking on **New Assertion**.

> For example, set an assertion on status code being a 200, and select the server listed in the response preview header. This will send you a notification when there is a server error on the server that's assimilated with your API endpoint.

Second: alert conditions

> Alert conditions determine the circumstances under which you want a test to send a notification alert. 

> You can decide to be alerted after a specific amount of downtime and/or when failures are happening on a specific number of locations. To configure, set the pre-populated input areas in the given alert condition:

> `An alert is triggered if your test fails for x minutes from any x of x locations. `

> By default, Synthetics tests do not retry after a failed result for a given location. If you want a location to be considered failed only after a certain number of retries, pre-populate the given alert condition:

> `Retry x times before location is marked as failed.`

> Configure the minutes, locations, and retry time and an alert will automatically generate when these conditions are met.

Only then should we start mentioning the message that can be configured, etc.

3. Click the **Save test** button. Your test is now populated in its own page, which includes details on properties, history, and test results.

The **Synthetics Tests** page is useful for monitoring changes over time and verifying request anomalies across all of your synthetics tests. You can monitor this as well as events and test results to expedite troubleshooting during downtime. Once you create a few tests, preview all of tests in realtime on this page.

### Create a browser test

[Browser tests][9] are scenarios executed by Datadog on your web applications. They run at configurable periodic intervals from multiple locations around the world, and from multiple devices. These checks verify both that your applications are up and responding to requests, and that any conditions defined in your scenarios are met.

To create a browser test:

1. In the Datadog application, hover over **UX Monitoring** in the left hand menu and select *Synthetics Test*. 
2. In the top right corner, click the *New Test* button. 
3. Select *Browser Test*. 
4. Define the configuration of your browser test.

> 

Reviewer: Looks like there's an issue with the indentation of below list

        * Authentication: Authenticate through HTTP Basic Authentication with a username and a password.
        * Cookies: Defined cookies are added to the default browser cookies. Set multiple cookies using the format `<COOKIE_NAME1>=<COOKIE_VALUE1>; <COOKIE_NAME2>=<COOKIE_VALUE2>`.

2. **Name**: Set the name of your browser test.
3. **Select your tags**: Select the tags attached to your browser test. Use the `<KEY>:<VALUE>` format to filter on a `<VALUE>` for a given `<KEY>` on the Synthetics page.
4. **Devices**: Select which devices to run your check on. Available devices are `Laptop Large`, `Tablet`, and `Mobile Small`.
5. **Locations**: Select which Datadog managed locations to run the test from. Many AWS locations from around the world are available. The full list is retrievable through the [Datadog API][5]. You can also set up a [Private Location][11] to run a Synthetics Browser test on a private URL not accessible from the public internet.
6. **How often should Datadog run the test?** Set the interval for how often the test will run. Intervals are available between every 15 minutes to once per week. [Contact support][12] to enable additional frequencies for your test.

> 7. **Alert conditions**: Set the conditions that need to be met (`minutes`, `locations`, and `retry`) for a test to retry if it has failed.

Reviewer: Set the conditions that need to be met (`minutes`, `locations`, and `retry`) to trigger an alert.

8. **Notify your team**: Enter an message associated with the alert condition and who the alert should be sent to. Use `@` to tag people in the body of the message and select, from the dropdown list, who to send the alert to. You can also type in an email address in this location to send to any team or member that is not listed.
9. Once you've input all required fields, click the *Save Details & Record Test* button.

#### Record a test with variables and assertions

Tests can be only recorded from **[Google Chrome][1]**. To record your test, download the [Datadog Record Test extension for Google Chrome][2].

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/browser_check_record_test.png" alt="Browser test record test" responsive="true" >}}

> 1. Optionally, select **Open in a pop-up** at the upper right of the page to open your test recording in a separate pop-up window in order to avoid sizing issues in the displayed window within Datadog's interface.

Reviewer: Would add:

Note: you can open a pop up in incognito mode by clicking `Open In A Pop Up` + `Shift`. This is particularly useful to record login workflows as the incognito mode will allow you to record your test without any cached browser data.

> 2. Click on **Start recording** to begin recording your browser test.

Reviewer: Click on **Start recording** to begin recording your browser test by navigating on your page in the iframe on the right of the page, or in the pop up you just opened.

3. Your actions are recorded and used to create steps within your browser test scenario. You can record the uploading of files as an action, though this is limited to 10 files, with a limit of 5MB each.
4. Use the actions available in the upper left corner to enrich your scenario:
    {{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/browser_test_step.png" alt="Browser Test steps" responsive="true" style="width:80%;">}}

> **Note**: **Your last browser test step must be an Assertion**, otherwise there is nothing to check.

Reviewer: **Note**: **Your last browser test step must be an Assertion**, this will ensure your test ended up on the expected page and found the expected element. This is what will allow your test to be self-maintaining as it will be able to use a different set of keys to perform the recorded journey and confirm it landed on the expected element although some changes on the UI might have happened since the test was first recorded.

> 5. Click the **Variables** button under *Add New*. Select `Pattern`, `Element`, `Global Variable`, or `Email` from the dropdown menu. For example, select `Email` and Datadog will create a special email variable that allows you to test that an email was sent by the UI and received by an email server.

Reviewer: that an email was sent by the browser test and received by one of our dedicated email servers.

6. Click the **Assertion** button under *Add New*. Select an assertion, such as `Test that an email was received`.
    

>     [Assertions][13] allow you to check whether an element, some content, or some text is available on the current page. You can also check whether a specific email was sent. For example, you can create an assertion that checks whether an email was sent and whether specific values (string, number, regex) are present within the email subject or body. This assertion leverages email variables.

Reviewer: You can also check the URL of a page or whether a specific email was sent.

> 7. Select the subject condition and click **Use variable**. Select the email variable you created. This assigns the email variable you created to the assertion. Select the body condition and click **Use variable**. Select the email variable you created.

Reviewer: To clarify things up, the email variable should **first** be used in a step that will send the email, for instance as an input step in a test: https://cl.ly/b71f122c8dcd
Then, users can also use variables in the email assertion step if they want to check that the body contains a specific name (for instance 'welcome Sarina').

Reviewer: So it might be worth adding a step between 5 & 6 to show that the email variable should be used to trigger the email like in this https://cl.ly/b71f122c8dcd example

8. Once you have finished your Scenario, click on **Save and Launch Test**.

> The test overview page includes properties, history, sample results, and test results. In the top right corner, choose to **Run Test Now**, **Pause Test**, **Edit Test Details**, **Edit Recording**, **Clone**, or **Delete** a test. Under properties, add tags to keep your tests organized in the [Synthetics list][14]. All additional configuration for your tests occur in this page. To create a new test or preview existing tests, navigate back to [synthetics tests][14].

Reviewer: Not too sure what is meant by properties? 
It might be cool to mention metrics that are being generated, screenshots on a per step basis as well as resources, errors & traces that appear when opening the context panel on one specific step (https://cl.ly/beeedaa93226)

---

At the end of browser test we focus on the browser test details page VS at the end of API test we focus on the main Synthetics homepage.
I feel like it might be useful to have a small section about Synthetics homepage at the very beginning, then detail more test details pages for both API & browser tests at the end of each respective section.

> ### Private locations

Reviewer: Set up a private location

To create a private location:

1. In the Datadog app, hover over **UX Monitoring** and select *Settings* -> *Private Locations*. Create a new private location:

    {{< img src="synthetics/private_locations/create_private_location.png" alt="create a private locations" responsive="true" style="width:70%;">}}

2. Fill out the Location Details and click **Save and Generate** to generate the configuration file associated with your private location on your worker.

    **Note**: The configuration file contains secrets for private location authentication, test configuration decryption, and test result encryption. Datadog does not store the secrets, so store them locally before leaving the Private Locations screen.
    **You need to be able to reference these secrets again if you decide to add more workers, or to install workers on another host.**

3. Launch your worker as a standalone container using the Docker run command provided and the previously created configuration file:

    ```
    docker run --init --rm -v $PWD/worker-config-<LOCATION_ID>.json:/etc/datadog/synthetics-check-runner.json datadog/synthetics-private-location-worker
    ```

>     One worker can process up to 10 tests in parallel by default. To scale a private location:

Reviewer: > One worker can process up to 10 tests in parallel by default.

This is not true (contradicted by the first bullet point actually) 😅so let's remove that sentence from here and from https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/private_locations/#overview as well if possible 😁

      * Change the `concurrency` parameter value to allow more parallel tests from one worker.

>       * Add or remove workers on your host. It is possible to add several workers for one private location with one single configuration file. Each worker would then request `N` requests depending on its number of free slots and when worker 1 is processing tests, worker 2 requests the following tests, etc.

Reviewer: Each worker would then request `N` tests to run

## Overview
Datadog Synthetics offers two different ways to monitor your applications: API tests to monitor the uptime of your API endpoints and browser tests to check key user journeys. Your tests can be run either from managed locations or from private locations. Synthetics helps you ensure uptime, identify regional issues, and make sure key web transactions can be performed on your application.

{{< img src="synthetics/synthetics_home_page.png" alt="Synthetics home page" responsive="true">}}

By unifying Synthetics with your metrics, traces, and logs, Datadog allows you to observe how all your systems are performing, as experienced by your users. The [Synthetics][1] homepage details all of this information to give you real-time status updates, response times, and uptimes.

> This guide shows you how to set up your first Synthetics test with Datadog. Follow the sections below to configure your API, browser test, or private location for internal-facing apps or private URLs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide shows you how to set up your first Synthetics test with Datadog. Follow the sections below to configure an API test, browser test, or private location for internal-facing apps or private URLs.
```

## Prerequisites

> The browser tests can be only recorded from **[Google Chrome][2]**. Datadog will prompt you to download this extension during the creation of the test. You can also download the [Datadog Record Test extension for Google Chrome][3].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Browser tests can be only recorded from **[Google Chrome][2]**. Datadog will prompt you to download this extension during the creation of the test. You can also download the [Datadog Record Test extension for Google Chrome][3].
```

5. **Locations**: Select which Datadog managed locations to run the test from. Many AWS locations from around the world are available. The full list is retrievable through the [Datadog API][2]. You can also set up a [Private Location](#set-up-a-private-location) to run a Synthetics API test on a private endpoint not accessible from the public internet.
6. **How often should Datadog run the test?** Set the interval for how often the test will run. Intervals are available between once every minute to once per week.
7. Click on **Test Connection** to try out the request configuration. You should see a response preview show up on the right side of your screen.
[1]: /synthetics
[2]: /api/?lang=bash#get-available-locations
{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

#### Assertions

Once the URL is tested, a response preview will populate in a panel to the right of the configuration options. If the test fails, review the error [here][7].

This panel shows the request as well as the response preview of your API call. It also automates the creation of assertions on the status code, content-type header, and response time of the request.

> You can create custom assertions: in the Headers section of this panel's response preview, click on any header to auto-populate a header assertion. It is also possible to manually add [assertions][8], on body, header, response type, or status code by clicking on New Assertion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create custom assertions: in the Headers section of this panel's response preview, click on any header to auto-populate a header assertion. It is also possible to manually add [assertions][8] on body, header, response type, or status code by clicking on New Assertion.
```

## Overview
Datadog Synthetics offers two different ways to monitor your applications: API tests to monitor the uptime of your API endpoints and browser tests to check key user journeys. Your tests can be run either from managed locations or from private locations. Synthetics helps you ensure uptime, identify regional issues, and make sure key web transactions can be performed on your application.

{{< img src="synthetics/synthetics_home_page.png" alt="Synthetics home page" responsive="true">}}

By unifying Synthetics with your metrics, traces, and logs, Datadog allows you to observe how all your systems are performing, as experienced by your users. The [Synthetics][1] homepage details all of this information to give you real-time status updates, response times, and uptimes.

> This guide shows you how to set up your first Synthetics test with Datadog. Follow the sections below to configure an API test, browser test, or private location for internal-facing apps or private URLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows you how to set up your first Synthetics tests with Datadog. Follow the sections below to configure an API test, a browser test, and create a private location to test your internal-facing apps.
```

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: It might make more sense to split prerequisites by getting started section.
For instance the extension is only required to run browser tests, not for API tests. Private locations also have some specific requirements, such as having a host that can run Docker, and Linux containers.

Browser tests can be only recorded from **[Google Chrome][2]**. Datadog will prompt you to download the Datadog Record Test extension during the creation of the test. You can also [download this extension directly from the Chrome Web Store][3].

> ## Create a Datadog account

Reviewer: Would put that section before the Prerequisites that are specific to Synthetics

If you haven't already, create a [Datadog account][4].

> ## Configure your first test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure your first tests
```

> ### Create an API test

Reviewer: I’m sorry I’m going to be annoying :sweat_smile: 
But regarding the general structure of the getting started, I would have expected something less comprehensive and more scoped to one or two specific examples. For instance on the logs’ one https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/logs/?tab=ussite they only talk about manually sending logs & sending logs from the Agent, and don't spend too much on going into each specific parameter that can be set. So I was expecting something a bit similar?
Instead of going through all the different options of a test, I think maybe we should just stick to one of the API tests, for instance HTTP and just go through the creation of it without detailing all the options. I made a draft to show you what I was thinking of: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LTmJXw7vXSSC8JUzkHP37YVcSVjMrUCLahNcTH4NAdk/edit?usp=sharing
Can you have a look and let me know what you think? If you feel like this does not make sense from a doc perspective, let's discuss that as I'm curious what are the best practices for this kind of material!
If you feel like this makes sense, it'd be cool to have something similar for the browser test & private location sections as well.

3. Select **API test**.
4. Define the configuration of your API test.

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab "HTTP Test" %}}

{{< img src="synthetics/api_tests/make-http-request.png" alt="Make HTTP Request" responsive="true" style="width:80%;" >}}

Define the request you want to be executed by Datadog:

1. **Choose request type**: `HTTP`
2. Choose the **Method** and **URL** to query. Available methods are: `GET`, `POST`, `PATCH`, `PUT`, `HEAD`, `DELETE`, and `OPTIONS`.
3. **Name**: Set the name of your API test.
4. **Select your tags**: Select the tags attached to your API test. Use the `<KEY>:<VALUE>` format to filter on a `<VALUE>` for a given `<KEY>` on the [Synthetics page][1].
5. **Locations**: Select which Datadog managed locations to run the test from. Many AWS locations from around the world are available. The full list is retrievable through the [Datadog API][2]. You can also set up a [Private Location](#set-up-a-private-location) to run a Synthetics API test on a private endpoint not accessible from the public internet.
6. **How often should Datadog run the test?** Set the interval for how often the test will run. Intervals are available between every one minute to once per week.

> 7. Click on **Test URL** to try out the request configuration. You should see a response preview show up on the right side of your screen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Click on **Test URL** to try out the request configuration. You will see a response preview show up on the right side of your screen.
```

1. **Choose request type**: `SSL`
2. Specify the `Host` and the SSL `Port`. By default, the port is set to _443_.
3. **Name**: The name of your API test.
4. **Select your tags**: Select the tags attached to your API test. Use the `<KEY>:<VALUE>` format to filter on a `<VALUE>` for a given `<KEY>` on the [Synthetics page][1].
5. **Locations**: Select which Datadog managed locations to run the test from. Many AWS locations from around the world are available. The full list is retrievable through the [Datadog API][2]. You can also set up a [Private Location](#set-up-a-private-location) to run a Synthetics API test on a private endpoint not accessible from the public internet.
6. **How often should Datadog run the test?** Set the interval for how often the test will run. Intervals are available between once every minute to once per week.
7. Click on **Test Connection** to try out the request configuration. You should see a response preview show up on the right side of your screen.
[1]: /synthetics
[2]: /api/?lang=bash#get-available-locations
{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

#### Assertions

> Once the URL is tested, a response preview will populate in a panel to the right of the configuration options. If the test fails, review the error [here][7].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the URL is tested, a response preview will populate in a panel to the right of the configuration options. If the test fails, you can [review the error][7].
```

`An alert is triggered if your test fails for x minutes from any x of x locations.`

By default, Synthetics tests do not retry after a failed result for a given location. If you want a location to be considered failed only after a certain number of retries, pre-populate the given alert condition:

`Retry x times before location is marked as failed.`

Configure the `minutes`, `locations`, and `retry` time and an alert will automatically generate when these conditions are met.

#### Set assertions and alert conditions

To create an alert condition using custom assertions:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "HTTP Test" %}}
1. In the **Headers** section of this panel, click on any header to auto-populate an alert condition under *Make a request* in the test configuration options. You can also manually add an [assertion][1], such as `body`, `header`, `response type`, or `status code` to create customized alert conditions.

> 2. Enter an message associated with the alert condition and who the message should be sent to. Use `@` to tag people in the body of the message and select, from the dropdown list, who to send the alert to. You can also type in an email address in this location to send to any team or member that is not listed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Enter a message associated with the alert condition and who the message should be sent to. Use `@` to tag people in the body of the message and select, from the dropdown list, who to send the alert to. You can also type in an email address in this location to send to any team or member that is not listed.
```

    
8. Select the subject condition and click **Use variable**. Select the email variable you created. This assigns the email variable you created to the assertion. Select the body condition and click **Use variable**. Select the email variable you created.
9. Once you have finished your Scenario, click on **Save and Launch Test**.

    {{< img src="synthetics/browser_tests/context-panel.gif" alt="Context panel" responsive="true" style="width:100%;">}}

A **browser test** homepage will automatically populate after save. This page includes property information, historical graphs for response time and uptime, sample results, and all events and test results. Sample results include errors, resources, and traces. To review this information, click on the `error`, `resources`, or `traces` button located next to the sample result action.

> ### Set up a private location

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up a private location
```

Reviewer: Setting up a private location should not be part of the "configure a test" section, it's something different, it's about creating a whole location (that will then be used to run tests)

    ```

    To scale a private location:
      * Change the `concurrency` parameter value to allow more parallel tests from one worker.
      * Add or remove workers on your host. It is possible to add several workers for one private location with one single configuration file. Each worker would then request `N` tests to run depending on its number of free slots and when worker 1 is processing tests, worker 2 requests the following tests, etc.

4. To pull test configurations and push test results, the private location worker needs access to one of the Datadog API endpoints:

    * For the Datadog US site: `api.datadoghq.com/api/`.
    * For the Datadog EU site: `api.datadoghq.eu/api/`.

    Check if the endpoint corresponding to your Datadog Site is available from the host running the worker:

    * For the Datadog US site: `curl https://api.datadoghq.com`.
    * For the Datadog EU site:   `curl https://api.datadoghq.eu`.
    
**Note**: You must allow outbound traffic on port `443` because test configurations are pulled and test results are pushed via HTTPS.

> 5. If your private location reports correctly to Datadog you should see the corresponding health status displayed if the private location polled your endpoint less than 5 seconds before loading the settings or create test pages:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. If your private location reports correctly to Datadog, you will see the corresponding health status displayed if the private location polled your endpoint less than 5 seconds before loading the settings or create test pages:
```

  * In your private locations list, in the Settings section:

    {{< img src="synthetics/private_locations/private_location_pill.png" alt="private locations pills" responsive="true" style="width:100%;">}}

>   * In the form when creating a test, below the Private locations section:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * In the form when creating a test, below the private locations section:
```

>     {{< img src="synthetics/private_locations/private_locations_in_list.png" alt="private locations in list" responsive="true" style="width:75%;">}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    {{< img src="synthetics/private_locations/private_locations_in_list.png" alt="Private locations in list" responsive="true" style="width:75%;">}}
```
